tiup: add 4 docs mirror-mirror/merge/modify/sign.md (#5285)
pingcap/docs: tiup/tiup-command-mirror.md

---
title: tiup mirror
---

# tiup mirror

> TiUP [mirror](/tiup/tiup-mirror-reference.md) is a very important concept, and TiUP currently supports two forms of mirroring:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In TiUP, [mirror](/tiup/tiup-mirror-reference.md) is an important concept. TiUP currently supports two forms of mirroring:
```

> - Local mirror: the TiUP client and mirror are on the same machine, and the client accesses the mirror through the file system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Local mirror: the TiUP client and the mirror are on the same machine, and the client accesses the mirror through the file system.
```

> - Remote mirror: the TiUP client and the mirror are not on the same machine, and the client accesses the mirror through the network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remote mirror: the TiUP client and the mirror are not on the same machine, and the client accesses the mirror through network.
```

> The `tiup mirror` command is used to manage mirrors and provides various functions such as mirror creation, component distribution, key management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tiup mirror` command is used to manage mirrors and provides ways to create mirrors, distribute components, and manage keys.
```

## Syntax

```shell
tiup mirror <command> [flags]
```

> `<command>` stands for sub-commands. For the list of supported sub-commands, refer to the command list below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<command>` stands for sub-commands. For the list of supported sub-commands, refer to the [command list](#command-list) below.
```

## Option

None

## Command list

> - [genkey](/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-genkey.md): generates a private key file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [genkey](/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-genkey.md): generates the private key file
```

> - [sign](/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-sign.md): signs a specific file with a private key file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [sign](/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-sign.md): signs a specific file using a private key file
```

> - [init]<!-- (/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-init.md) -->: initiates an empty mirror

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- init<!-- (/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-init.md) -->: initiates an empty mirror
```

- [set](/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-set.md): sets the current mirror
- [grant](/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-grant.md): grants a new component owner for the current mirror
- [publish](/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-publish.md): publishes new components to the current mirror

> - [modify](/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-modify.md): modifies the properties of the components in the current mirror

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [modify](/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-modify.md): modifies the attributes of the components in the current mirror
```

> - [rotate]<!-- (/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-rotate.md) -->: updates the root certificate in the current mirror

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- rotate<!-- (/tiup/tiup-command-mirror-rotate.md) -->: updates the root certificate in the current mirror
```
